- **Subject :**
- Multiscale Hybrid Modelling Framework for Intercropping: the best of Plant and Crop Models
- **Summary: **
- Functional-structural plant models (FSPM) are used to simulate the growth and development of plants processes at the scale of plant organs in canopies, *e.g.* light interception or water and nutrient uptake, while process-based soil-crop models like STICS simulate processes at the canopy scale, considering GxExM interactions in complex canopies. However, while FSPM are difficult to parametrize and take long to simulate, crop models have difficulties representing spatial and temporal heterogeneity ([[@Current knowledge and future research opportunities for modeling annual crop mixtures. A review]]). FSPM have been used to simulate intercrops (Barillot et al., 2014; Evers et al., 2019; Braghiere et al., 2019; Lecarpentier et al., 2019; Louarn et al., 2020; Levionnois et al., 2023). In parallel, crop models have been extended to represent intercrops (Traore et al., 2022). However, both approaches have limitations and difficulties to answer key issues: a) how to model intercropping and mixture canopies with crop models that consider homogeneous leaf and root distribution without spatial and temporal heterogeneity? B) how to simulate full crop over several seasons while being limited by the complexity of the plant-plant and plant-environment interactions  (FSPMs)?
- In this project, we propose to design an hybrid modelling framework able to benefit from the two worlds. FSPMs will be used to simulate the intimate plant-plant interactions in intercrops while the STICS soil-crop model will be used to pre-determine optimal practices of spatial arrangements (G*G combinations and proportions) and management (e.g., sowing, fertilization, harvest) in intercrops. First, an existing FSPM for intercrops will be adapted to calibrate the crop model with realistic plant parameters (shoot and root), plant-plant and plant-environment plasticity based on resource avilability (light, water, and nitrogen). This model will be used for simulation to** i**dentify keys processes that need to be modified in the crop model. Then, different approaches will be tested at different spatial and temporal scales for each process such as analytical, numerical or meta-modelling upscaling. Finally, a hybrid functional-structural plant/crop model will be designed to consider both plant plasticity and crop heterogeneity while maintaining simulation efficiency.
- **Goals / Objectives**
- 1 –** Identify keys processes to modify crop models**  ** **– FSP and crop models will be calibrated and evaluated with experimental data. Using simulations, both formalisms will be compared to understand the similarities and differences. Moreover, some emerging properties of the FSP model (e.g. plant architecture parameters such as distribution of leaf/root density) will be used to calibrate the crop model. Some processes, such as light interception, or water and nitrogen uptake, are available at the plant and crop scale, will be compared both formally and by simulation.  A large simulation experiment will be done to understand how the various processes are modified based on plant trait variations, spatial design of the intercrop (sowing density, interrow distance), temporal one (sowing dates of each crop, plant growth dynamic), but also considering spatial and temporal scale of the simulated processes. 
  The plant varieties used to simulate intercrops will be chosen based on : a) availability of an FSP model in the OpenAlea community or in WUR, b) existing STICS parametrization for the Intercrop, c) available experiment in the InterCropValues project.
  2 - **Test different approaches to couple FSPM and crop model**. Various modules will be investigated at different spatial and temporal scale: light interception, water and nitrogen uptake. The same process is modeled with a given formalism at each spatial scale. To scale up from one scale (eg organ scale) to another (eg crop scale), several strategies will be investigated: how to find an equivalent analytical model for water uptake using homogeneous hypotheses (Couveur et al., 2012)? How to estimate a surrogate model based on the model output at a finer scale to capture emergent properties? And finally, how to design hybrid models by combining existing modules at the same or different scales? 
  This can lead to new formalisms in the crop model.
  3- **An hybrid FSP-Crop model for ideotyping intercrops **– To better understand the underlying mechanisms of intercrops, we plan to simulate various composition of intercrops with different spatial (distance) and temporal (sowing) configurations with models at different scales (FSPM, IBM and Crop model processes).
- **Main results**
- 3 publications are planned during the PhD
- -
- Year 1 : Literature review about multiscale representation and simulation of intercrops
- -
- Year 2: Multiscale investigation of plant and crop functioning: space, time and multi-processes
- -
- Year 3 : Ideotyping design of intercrops by connecting plant and crop models
- **References**
- Gaudio, N., Escobar-Gutiérrez, A. J., Casadebaig, P., et al. (2019). Current knowledge and future research opportunities for modeling annual crop mixtures. A review. Agronomy for Sustainable Development, 39, 1-20.
- Evers, J. B., Van Der Werf, W., Stomph, T. J., Bastiaans, L., Anten, N. P. (2019). Understanding and optimizing species mixtures using functional–structural plant modelling. Journal of experimental botany, 70(9), 2381-2388.
- Vezy, R., Munz, S., Gaudio, N., Launay, M., Lecharpentier, P., Ripoche, D., & Justes, E. (2022). Modelling intercrops functioning to advance the design of innovative agroecological systems. *Submitted in ASD*
- Barillot, R., Escobar-Gutiérrez, A. J., Fournier, C., Huynh, P., & Combes, D. (2014). Assessing the effects of architectural variations on light partitioning within virtual wheat–pea mixtures. Annals of Botany, 114(4), 725-737.
- Braghiere, R. K., Gérard, F., Evers, J. B., Pradal, C., & Pagès, L. (2020). Simulating the effects of water limitation on plant biomass using a 3D functional–structural plant model of shoot and root driven by soil hydraulics. Annals of Botany, 126(4), 713-728.
- Lecarpentier, C., Barillot, R., Blanc, E., *et al.* (2019). WALTer: a three-dimensional wheat model to study competition for light through the prediction of tillering dynamics. Annals of botany, 123(6), 961-975.
- Louarn, G., Barillot, R., Combes, D., & Escobar-Gutiérrez, A. (2020). Towards intercrop ideotypes: non-random trait assembly can promote overyielding and stability of species proportion in simulated legume-based mixtures. Annals of Botany, 126(4), 671-685.
- Levionnois, S., Pradal, C., Fournier, C., Sanner, J., & Robert, C. (2023). Modelling the impact of proportion, sowing date, and architectural traits of a companion crop on foliar fungal pathogens of wheat in crop mixtures. Phytopathology.
- Adam, M., MacCarthy, D. S., Traoré, P. C. S., Nenkam, A., Freduah, B. S., Ly, M., & Adiku, S. G. (2020). Which is more important to sorghum production systems in the Sudano-Sahelian zone of West Africa: Climate change or improved management practices?. Agricultural Systems, 185, 102920.
- Falconnier, G. N., Corbeels, M., Boote, K. J., Affholder, F., Adam, M., *et al.* (2020). Modelling climate change impacts on maize yields under low nitrogen input conditions in sub‐Saharan Africa. *Global change biology*, *26*(10), 5942-5964.